hi you guys what is up and welcome back
to my channel my name is April and today
I just want to talk about something that
is really close to my heart as a petite
woman and as the founder of smolitics
obviously this is a space a safe space
for petite women for short women to
express themselves and learn about their
bodies and what I want to talk about
today is how do love your short body if
you struggle with that and I don't want
to make this video and have there be an
assumption that one should struggle to
love their petite body I've met so many
teen women who are like what I love my
body it's amazing I love being short and
I've met other women who say I don't
like being short and it's tough for me
and so I just want to provide some
commentary on this and talk about how
you can feel really good in your body
honestly no matter what your shape or
your height your sizes but specifically
for petite women who are sort of
grappling with being short and how it's
maybe affecting how they feel about
their body okay so my first tip for how
to love your short body is to recognize
that society obviously has a standard of
beauty which is obviously very
perpetuated by Instagram models and
Instagram the perfect life the kind of
perfect body in Victoria's Secret what
makes all of these types of imagery that
you're familiar with that I'm familiar
with the kind of perpetuate and idea of
women needing to be tall I want us to
sort of start to shift the focus away
from that and move towards celebrating
our own body and celebrating what you've
got and just rocking it and loving it
because whatever imagery is out there
it's not a very clear or accurate
representation of the world especially
like the average person and it's not
attainable in a lot of a lot of cases
and it doesn't need to be attainable a
lot of times what Beauty represents is
not always the healthiest for example or
the strongest version of yourself that
you could even be so I would say
in terms of loving your body one of the
most important things to recognize is
that the focus shouldn't be about what
society deems as beautiful but what you
deem is beautiful and shifting the focus
more away from others and just the lens
onto you and what makes you feel good
and what you define as beauty I think
also what comes along with this and this
is so big that's such a important part
of why it starts politics is celebrating
your body for what it can do rather than
what it looks like or how it appears to
others for example how you look in the
mirror what your body can do is such an
amazing thing to focus on it's such an
awesome tool to focus on when you're
kind of struggling or it's not feeling
confident your body and if you're not
confident what you can do the I mean the
best thing about this is that you can go
in the gym and you can work on yourself
and you can start to focus on how you
feel feeling strong and capable rather
than how you look and over time they
kind of feed into each one another and
I've seen this so many times you just
start to love the way you look because
you love the way you feel and it kind of
comes emanates out from within as cheesy
as that sounds
so step one is kind of shifting the
focus away from appearance and more
towards feelings
step two is also to understand that
almost 50% of American women are
actually 5 foot 4 and shorter which is
considered petite so we have a really
really kind of skewed vision about how
we should look or how tall we should be
right when half of the women walking
around in the street in America are your
height or they're petite then it's
normal honestly we are the majority and
I think it can be really easy to feel
like with all the imagery that's out
there that we are like really short and
the only ones there are lots of women
and it's in fact the standard to be sort
of on the shorter side rather than the
taller side so step 3 getting into kind
of like actionable things not just like
cognitive awareness I would say do a
social media purge if you have accounts
that you're following and people you
don't know
fits pose that don't make you feel good
like you're scrolling through Instagram
you don't feel good I really encourage
you to purge any accounts unfollow any
accounts that don't make you feel great
about your body that don't make you feel
like you can celebrate your body in
authentic and genuine way this is really
important because the visuals that we
see really dictate our reality and you
want to make sure that the visuals you
surround yourself with are positive and
empowering and that's something you can
do really easily you can just take out
your phone and purge a bunch of accounts
that you're like every time I fall this
person I just like feel when I see this
photo I just I don't feel good about it
you know lose like bad leaves me in a
bad mood after I see it that's okay
that's totally fine even if the person
means well for so many different reasons
they could make you not feel super
stellar so I would say just go ahead and
purge them and let yourself let your
social media be filled with inspiration
and empowerment rather than comparison
and bad feelings that's something we
have complete control over so it's a
really easy one following that once
you've done a purge I would say follow
some awesome amazing role models who can
make you feel really good about being
Apetit and I love doing this I follow up
so many amazing booty empowering women
I'm gonna give you a few to get you to
get you started
one would be Shawn Johnson the gymnast
she's been a role model mine for a long
time she's super funny she's super
authentic she's super confident in her
body and she she has really humorous
content on our Instagram page I would
totally recommend following her as
someone you could kind of find
inspiration from and also just comfort
and because she is so tiny
I think she's 410 or 411 another great
role model is Lisa bill you she is one
of the founders of quest nutrition along
with her husband and she's like this
tiny powerhouse she's also really into
fitness so she's great inspiration she's
a motivational speaker she's an
entrepreneur she is really small and
just really kick-ass and in fact another
person I love Kathy ho well I'm sure you
know she's not petite but she has
amazing
an amazing amazing message about body
positivity current Lisa did a podcast
together a few years ago last year
called heroic podcast and they have
awesome content I would definitely check
out that podcast for some great female
role models who can help you feel good
about yourself lastly for now I follow
Debbie
Bagby she's just this badass chick she's
maybe 411 as well she's really small and
she does all sorts of kind of stunt work
acrobatics gymnastics she's now a gym
shark sponsored athlete but I just think
she's fearless and you can tell she
feels powerful and she feels super tall
on the inside which is really what
matters so go and follow some accounts
that inspire the heck out of you and
surround yourself with these visuals
that are more positive tip number five
is to wear clothes that make you feel
good about yourself I think that I'm not
really into fashion but I feel best in
certain types of clothes I honestly feel
amazing and fitness apparel which is
what I wear most the time any pic guilty
of that but I think that dressing in a
way that makes you feel good can be
really empowering and kind of take away
from focusing on things like your height
you're getting more in tune with
yourself and you're kind of moving away
from focusing on things like your height
because your height isn't you right but
things like how you express yourself
what you like to wear these types of
things our choices you can make to feel
really great and it's just a way to get
closer or more in tune with your own
self-expression so I also just want to
kind of wrap this up by saying that over
time people aren't going to see you for
being short people remember you for
being short they won't even think of you
or kind of see you as that way because
there are so many things about you that
are so much more memorable than their
heights really let that sink in there
are so many things that are more
memorable about you than your height or
physical appearance
etc and as you become more authentic and
you're being yourself I'm sure a lot of
you obviously we're all practicing being
ourselves every day but I mean I have
this crazy story when I started small
ethics a few years ago I was at my
fencing gym I'm a fencer I used to train
and I was telling people they were oh
what are you up to they'd asked me and I
told them I started this company to help
petite women feel empowered through
fitness and nutrition and someone looked
at me and she said oh you're petite I
never noticed and at the time because I
was also during a time when I was
formulating this idea and kind of
talking to women who you know gathering
inspiration and trying to understand
sort of the pain points of being petite
and also our health I just I thought
that was an amazing insight for me to
realize that some people don't even see
me as short because of this exact reason
I'm talking about that your treats the
your personality how you express
yourself what you accomplish how you
command presence in a room all of these
things are actually a lot more memorable
than your actual physicality your actual
height and it's like they say people
don't remember what you look like people
remember you by how you make them feel
so you can make other people feel
empowered and strong and tall on their
side and they will they will remember
you having a huge presence and really
really commanding yourself and stepping
into your own power like that kind of a
racist height from the entire equation
so that's just something that I try to
focus on in my daily life I think that
like I said there's a lot of different
experiences being petite I struggled
with my height when I was very young for
example like on the playground when I
was kid
the monkey bars I got made fun of by a
lot of boys but as I got older through
fencing I actually became very empowered
and kind of didn't feel much about my
height mostly because as a nine-year-old
sword-fighting the attention shifted
into what my body could do I was
focusing on what I was capable of rather
than how I looked or how tall I was so
that's how I kind of moved past my
height but we're all in different
journeys some of us never even think
about our mind some of us do so if
you're someone who thinks about your
physical appearance and your height in
particular at something you struggle
with I highly recommend kind of sifting
through this material journaling about
it and just thinking about what makes
you you besides your height and how can
you focus on that more than your
physical attributes especially because
they don't really matter and there's
also another approach to this right now
that I run this business I'm focusing on
my height all the time and I actually
find it to be so empowering so I'm not
saying ignore your height because it's a
bad thing absolutely not but eventually
you will through doing work on yourself
and practicing self love and self care
and working on yourself at the gym
seeing how strong you are your body's
like your height is not going to be how
to have so much meaning attached to it
you'll sort of decouple it from the
emotion any emotions or stories or
narratives that have been attached to
that for since you were younger if
someone made fun of you these types of
things kind of latch on and grow with us
into adulthood but as you work on
yourself you can undo some of that work
and you might even start to really
celebrate your height like I do and I
see it as such a positive force in my
life it's allowed me to help so many
women it's given me a purpose and I
never really saw that coming so there's
a lot to be said about a parents in
today's age with social media and
imagery that were bombarded with every
day and I just encourage you guys to
continue to look inward at your
capabilities and how strong you are and
empower other women to love their bodies
no matter their size all right you guys
I hope that you enjoyed this little
heart hartwill h2h and i'll talk to you
really soon if you liked this video
please give it a like and subscribe for
more videos that empower petite women
through health and fitness and we will
chat soon I